Update faq (#3596)
ROCm-Developer-Tools/HIP: docs/faq.rst

almost all runtime code. Most device code needs no additional conversion since
HIP and CUDA have similar names for math and built-in functions. HIP code
provides the same performance as native CUDA code, plus the benefits of running
on AMD platforms.

Additional porting may only be required to deal with architecture feature
queries or with CUDA capabilities that HIP doesn't support.

How does HIP compare with OpenCL?
---------------------------------

HIP offers several benefits over OpenCL:

* Device code can be written in modern C++, including templates, lambdas, classes and so on.
* Host and device code can be mixed in the source files.
* The HIP API is less verbose than OpenCL and is familiar to CUDA developers.
* Porting from CUDA to HIP is significantly easier than porting from CUDA to OpenCL.
* HIP uses the best available development tools on each platform: ``amdclang++`` for AMD GPUs or ``nvcc``
  for NVIDIA GPUs, and profilers like ``omniperf`` or ``Nsight Systems``.
* HIP provides pointers and host-side pointer arithmetic.
* HIP provides device-level control over memory allocation and placement.
* HIP offers an offline compilation model.

> How does porting CUDA to HIP compare to porting CUDA to OpenCL?

Reviewer: Link this page?
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/reference/terms.html

Reviewer 2: Added a link

---------------------------------------------------------------

OpenCL is fairly different from HIP and CUDA when considering the host runtime,
but even more so when it comes to kernel code.
The device code of HIP is a C++ dialect, while OpenCL is C99-based.
OpenCL also does not support single-source compilation.

As a result, the OpenCL syntax is a lot different from HIP, and porting tools
have to perform complex transformations, especially when it comes to templates
or other C++ features in kernels.

Can I install both CUDA and ROCm on the same machine?
-----------------------------------------------------

Yes. Beware, that you still need a compatible GPU to actually run the compiled code.

> HIP detected my platform (``amd`` vs ``nvidia``) incorrectly. What should I do?

Reviewer: Should we add this to porting guide and link here?
https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/how-to/hip_porting_guide.html#hip-porting-guide

Reviewer 2: Done

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If HIP is unable to detect the correct platform, or you want to manually specify
it, set the ``HIP_PLATFORM`` environment variable to either ``amd`` or ``nvidia``.

On NVIDIA platforms, can I mix HIP code with CUDA code?
-------------------------------------------------------

Yes. Most HIP data structures are typedefs to CUDA equivalents and can be
intermixed.

See the :doc:`how-to/hip_porting_guide` for more details.

Compiler related questions
==========================

> How to use HIP-Clang to build HIP programs?

Reviewer: Please link this tutorial: https://rocm.docs.amd.com/projects/HIP/en/latest/tutorial/saxpy.html#compiling-on-the-command-line

It is written to represent the compiler usage on different OS or platform.

Reviewer 2: I was thinking of whether to even keep this question in the FAQ. That tutorial is a bit overkill for this question. Maybe something similar can also be added to the HIP compilers page of #3622 and we could link to that

------------------------------------------------------

``hipcc`` is just a compiler driver, meaning that it is not a compiler in itself,
but instead calls the appropriate compilers and sets some options.

The underlying compilers are ``amdclang++`` or ``nvcc``, depending on the platform,
and can be called directly.

What is HIP-Clang?
------------------

HIP-Clang is a Clang/LLVM based compiler to compile HIP programs for AMD

> platforms. It's executable is ``amdclang++``.

Reviewer: At windows, they just call it clang++. Should we mention here?

Reviewer 2: Done

Can I link HIP device code with host code compiled with another compiler such as gcc, icc, or clang?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes. HIP generates object code that conforms to the GCC ABI, and also links with libstdc++.
This means you can compile host code with the compiler of your choice and link the
generated host object code with device code.

> Can HIP applications be compiled with a C compiler?

Reviewer: Probably we should add these here:
https://advanced-micro-devices-demo--3622.com.readthedocs.build/projects/HIP/en/3622/understand/compilers.html

Reviewer 2: I would have to rebase on top of that. Let's wait until either is merged in and add it to the other one

        exit(c);                                        \
     }                                                  \
  }
  
  // Forward declaration - the implementation needs to be compiled with
  // a device compiler like hipcc or amdclang++
  hipError_t callKernel(int blocks, int threadsPerBlock, double* array, size_t size);
  
  int main(int argc, char** argv) {
      int blocks = 1024;
      int threadsPerBlock = 256;
      size_t arraySize = blocks * threadsPerBlock;
      double* d_array;
      double* h_array;
      h_array = (double*)malloc(arraySize * sizeof(double));
  
      HIP_CHECK(hipMalloc((void**)&d_array, arraySize * sizeof(double)));
      HIP_CHECK(callKernel(blocks, threadsPerBlock, d_array, arraySize));
      HIP_CHECK(hipMemcpy(h_array, d_array, arraySize * sizeof(double), hipMemcpyDeviceToHost));
      HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_array));
  
      free(h_array);
      return 0;
  }

These files are then compiled and linked using

.. code-block:: shell

  hipcc -c device.hip
  gcc host.c device.o $(hipconfig --cpp_config) -L/opt/rocm/lib -lamdhip64

assuming the default installation of ROCm in ``/opt/rocm``.

Miscellaneous
=============

> How to create a guard for code that is specific to the host or the GPU?

Reviewer: This should be in the porting guide and we should link here.

Reviewer 2: I think this does not (only) belong to the porting guide, this is also relevant for other users. So either the programming guide, the compilers. I'd vote for the compilers or somewhere where we explain the compilation process.

> *******************************************************************************

Reviewer 3: This topic is missing the metadata. 
Must be added.

Reviewer 2: Added metadata

Frequently asked questions
*******************************************************************************

> This topic provides answers to common and frequently asked questions from new HIP
> users and users familiar with NVIDIA CUDA.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This topic provides answers to frequently asked questions from new HIP
users and users familiar with NVIDIA CUDA.
```

HIP Support
===========

What NVIDIA CUDA features does HIP support?
-------------------------------------------

The :doc:`NVIDIA CUDA runtime API supported by HIP<hipify:tables/CUDA_Runtime_API_functions_supported_by_HIP>`
and :doc:`NVIDIA CUDA driver API suupported by HIP<hipify:tables/CUDA_Driver_API_functions_supported_by_HIP>`
pages describe which NVIDIA CUDA APIs are supported and what the equivalents are.
The :doc:`HIP API documentation <doxygen/html/index.html>` describes each API and
its limitations, if any, compared with the equivalent CUDA API.

The kernel language features are documented in the
:doc:`/reference/cpp_language_extensions` page.

What libraries does HIP provide?
--------------------------------

> HIP provides key math and AI libraries. The full list can be found at
> :doc:`rocm:reference/api-libraries`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HIP provides key math and AI libraries. See :doc:`rocm:reference/api-libraries` for the full list. 
```

What hardware does HIP support?
-------------------------------

> HIP supports AMD and NVIDIA GPUs. See the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HIP supports AMD and NVIDIA GPUs. See 
```

:ref:`prerequisites of the install guide<install_prerequisites>` for detailed
information.

What operating systems does HIP support?
----------------------------------------

The supported operating systems are listed in the
:doc:`rocm:compatibility/compatibility-matrix`.

CUDA and OpenCL
===============

Is HIP a drop-in replacement for CUDA?
--------------------------------------

The `HIPIFY <https://github.com/ROCm/HIPIFY>`_ tools can automatically convert

> almost all runtime code. Most device code needs no additional conversion since

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
almost all runtime code. Most device code needs no additional conversion because
```

HIP and CUDA have similar names for math and built-in functions. HIP code

> provides the same performance as native CUDA code, plus the benefits of running

Reviewer 3: Can we say the "same" performance?
"similar" might be a better term.

Reviewer 2: Changed it to "similar" - I am fairly certain, that it provides the same performance, as all functions are just wrappers around CUDA (that was the whole idea behind HIP), but you can never be sure that there are exotic cases, where the generatede code is not the exact same as if it was written in CUDA.

on AMD platforms.

> Additional porting might be required to deal with architecture feature
> queries or with CUDA capabilities that HIP doesn't support.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additional porting might be required to deal with architecture feature
queries or CUDA capabilities that HIP doesn't support.
```

How does HIP compare with OpenCL?
---------------------------------

HIP offers several benefits over OpenCL:

* Device code can be written in modern C++, including templates, lambdas,
  classes and so on.
* Host and device code can be mixed in the source files.
* The HIP API is less verbose than OpenCL and is familiar to CUDA developers.

> * Porting from CUDA to HIP is significantly easier than porting from CUDA to OpenCL.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Porting from CUDA to HIP is significantly easier than from CUDA to OpenCL.
```

* HIP uses development tools specialized for each platform: :ref:`amdclang++ <llvm-project:index>`
  for AMD GPUs or :xref:`nvcc <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-compiler-driver-nvcc/index.html>`
  for NVIDIA GPUs, and profilers like :ref:`omniperf <omniperf:index>` or
  :xref:`Nsight Systems <https://developer.nvidia.com/nsight-systems>`.
* HIP provides
  * pointers and host-side pointer arithmetic.
  * device-level control over memory allocation and placement.
  * an offline compilation model.

How does porting CUDA to HIP compare to porting CUDA to OpenCL?
---------------------------------------------------------------

OpenCL differs from HIP and CUDA when considering the host runtime,
but even more so when considering the kernel code.
The HIP device code is a C++ dialect, while OpenCL is C99-based.
OpenCL does not support single-source compilation.

As a result, the OpenCL syntax differs significantly from HIP, and porting tools

> must perform complex transformations, especially when it comes to templates

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
must perform complex transformations, especially regarding templates
```

or other C++ features in kernels.

To better understand the syntax differences, see :doc:`here<reference/terms>` or
the :doc:`HIP porting guide <how-to/hip_porting_guide>`.

Can I install CUDA and ROCm on the same machine?
------------------------------------------------

> Yes, but you still need a compatible GPU to actually run the compiled code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Yes, but you require a compatible GPU to run the compiled code.
```

HIP detected my platform incorrectly. What should I do?
-------------------------------------------------------

> See the :doc:`HIP porting guide<how-to/hip_porting_guide>` under the section "Identifying HIP Runtime".
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See the "Identifying HIP Runtime" section in the :doc:`HIP porting guide<how-to/hip_porting_guide>`. 

```

On NVIDIA platforms, can I mix HIP code with CUDA code?
-------------------------------------------------------

Yes. Most HIP types and data structures are `typedef`s to CUDA equivalents and
can be used interchangeably.

> See the :doc:`how-to/hip_porting_guide` for more details.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
See :doc:`how-to/hip_porting_guide` for more details.
```

Compiler related questions
==========================

How to use HIP-Clang to build HIP programs?
------------------------------------------------------

> :ref:`hipcc <HIPCC:index>` is a compiler driver. This means it is not a compiler,
> but calls the appropriate compilers and sets some options.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
:ref:`hipcc <HIPCC:index>` is a compiler driver. This means it is not a compiler but calls the appropriate compilers and sets some options.
```

The underlying compilers are :ref:`amdclang++ <llvm-project:index>` or
:xref:`nvcc <https://docs.nvidia.com/cuda/cuda-compiler-driver-nvcc/index.html>`,
depending on the platform, and can be called directly.

What is HIP-Clang?
------------------

> HIP-Clang is a Clang/LLVM-based compiler used to compile HIP programs for AMD

Reviewer 3: Is it AMD platforms or ROCM platforms?

Reviewer 2: This one specifically is for AMD platforms. Clang itself also has the ability to compile CUDA code, but that ability is not directly related to "HIP-Clang"

> platforms. Its executable is named :ref:`amdclang++ <llvm-project:index>` on
> Linux and ``clang++`` on Windows.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
platforms. The executable is named :ref:`amdclang++ <llvm-project:index>` on
Linux and ``clang++`` on Microsoft Windows.
```

Can I link HIP device code with host code compiled with another compiler such as gcc, icc, or clang?
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Yes. HIP generates object code that conforms to the GCC ABI, and also links with libstdc++.
This means you can compile host code with the compiler of your choice and link the

> generated host object code with device code.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Yes. HIP generates object code that conforms to the GCC ABI, and links with libstdc++.
This means you can compile host code with the compiler of your choice and link the
generated host object code with device code.
```

Can HIP applications be compiled with a C compiler?
---------------------------------------------------

> HIP is a C/C++ API that can be used with C compilers. However, this applies only
> to the API itself. Device code and the syntax for calling kernels need to be
> compiled with a supported compiler like :ref:`hipcc <HIPCC:index>`. The code objects that are
> generated with ``hipcc`` can however be used with a C compiler, as shown in the
> code examples below.
> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HIP is a C/C++ API that can be used with C compilers. However, this applies only
to the API itself. Device code and the syntax for calling kernels must be
compiled with a supported compiler such as :ref:`hipcc <HIPCC:index>`. The code objects that are
generated with ``hipcc`` can, however, be used with a C compiler, as shown in the
code examples below.

```

        exit(c);                                        \
     }                                                  \
  }

  // Forward declaration - the implementation needs to be compiled with
  // a device compiler like hipcc or amdclang++
  hipError_t callKernel(int blocks, int threadsPerBlock, double* array, size_t size);

  int main(int argc, char** argv) {
      int blocks = 1024;
      int threadsPerBlock = 256;
      size_t arraySize = blocks * threadsPerBlock;
      double* d_array;
      double* h_array;
      h_array = (double*)malloc(arraySize * sizeof(double));

      HIP_CHECK(hipMalloc((void**)&d_array, arraySize * sizeof(double)));
      HIP_CHECK(callKernel(blocks, threadsPerBlock, d_array, arraySize));
      HIP_CHECK(hipMemcpy(h_array, d_array, arraySize * sizeof(double), hipMemcpyDeviceToHost));
      HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_array));

      free(h_array);
      return 0;
  }

These files are then compiled and linked using

.. code-block:: shell

  hipcc -c device.hip
  gcc host.c device.o $(hipconfig --cpp_config) -L/opt/rocm/lib -lamdhip64

assuming the default installation of ROCm in ``/opt/rocm``.

Miscellaneous
=============

> How to create a guard for code specific to the host or the GPU?

Reviewer 3: There's something off in this question. 
Perhaps:
How do you guard...

Reviewer 2: Adapted to "How to guard code specific to the host or the GPU?"

---------------------------------------------------------------

The compiler defines the ``__HIP_DEVICE_COMPILE__`` macro only when compiling
device code.

Refer to the :doc:`how-to/hip_porting_guide` for more information.

Can a HIP binary run on both AMD and NVIDIA platforms?
------------------------------------------------------

> HIP is a source-portable language that can be compiled to run on either AMD
> or NVIDIA platforms. However, the HIP tools don't create a "fat binary" that can
> run on either platform.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
HIP is a source-portable language that can be compiled to run on AMD
or NVIDIA platforms. However, the HIP tools don't create a "fat binary" that can
run on either platform.
```

===========

What NVIDIA CUDA features does HIP support?
-------------------------------------------

The :doc:`NVIDIA CUDA runtime API supported by HIP<hipify:tables/CUDA_Runtime_API_functions_supported_by_HIP>`
and :doc:`NVIDIA CUDA driver API suupported by HIP<hipify:tables/CUDA_Driver_API_functions_supported_by_HIP>`
pages describe which NVIDIA CUDA APIs are supported and what the equivalents are.
The :doc:`HIP API documentation <doxygen/html/index.html>` describes each API and
its limitations, if any, compared with the equivalent CUDA API.

The kernel language features are documented in the
:doc:`/reference/cpp_language_extensions` page.

What libraries does HIP provide?
--------------------------------

HIP provides key math and AI libraries. See :doc:`rocm:reference/api-libraries`
for the full list.

What hardware does HIP support?
-------------------------------

HIP supports AMD and NVIDIA GPUs. See
:ref:`prerequisites of the install guide<install_prerequisites>` for detailed
information.

What operating systems does HIP support?
----------------------------------------

The supported operating systems are listed in the
:doc:`rocm:compatibility/compatibility-matrix`.

> CUDA and OpenCL

Reviewer 4: This tittle should be removed.

Reviewer 2: I changed it. Removing it would expand the dynamic table of contents on the right side too much, and it's also not directly related to "HIP support"

Reviewer 4: Sure

===============

Is HIP a drop-in replacement for CUDA?
--------------------------------------

> The `HIPIFY <https://github.com/ROCm/HIPIFY>`_ tools can automatically convert

Reviewer 4: HIP applications can be used on both AMD platform and non-AMD platform, like NVIDIA, using the conversion tool HIPIFY.

Reviewer 2: This logic is backwards - CUDA code can be ported to the (portable) HIP code using HIPIFY. Also the question itself already implies, that the code can also run on NVIDIA platforms.

  :xref:`Nsight Systems <https://developer.nvidia.com/nsight-systems>`.
* HIP provides
  * pointers and host-side pointer arithmetic.
  * device-level control over memory allocation and placement.
  * an offline compilation model.

How does porting CUDA to HIP compare to porting CUDA to OpenCL?
---------------------------------------------------------------

OpenCL differs from HIP and CUDA when considering the host runtime,
but even more so when considering the kernel code.
The HIP device code is a C++ dialect, while OpenCL is C99-based.
OpenCL does not support single-source compilation.

As a result, the OpenCL syntax differs significantly from HIP, and porting tools
must perform complex transformations, especially regarding templates or other
C++ features in kernels.

To better understand the syntax differences, see :doc:`here<reference/terms>` or
the :doc:`HIP porting guide <how-to/hip_porting_guide>`.

Can I install CUDA and ROCm on the same machine?
------------------------------------------------

Yes, but you require a compatible GPU to run the compiled code.

HIP detected my platform incorrectly. What should I do?
-------------------------------------------------------

> 

Reviewer 4: For this question, I think the original explanation is better. User needs to know how to differentiate the platform, not how to port the code.

Reviewer 2: The goal for this PR is to reduce the amount of content duplication, so where possible it is preferred to link to existing documentation. I found a better explanation in the hipcc documentation

        exit(c);                                        \
     }                                                  \
  }

  // Forward declaration - the implementation needs to be compiled with
  // a device compiler like hipcc or amdclang++
  hipError_t callKernel(int blocks, int threadsPerBlock, double* array, size_t size);

  int main(int argc, char** argv) {
      int blocks = 1024;
      int threadsPerBlock = 256;
      size_t arraySize = blocks * threadsPerBlock;
      double* d_array;
      double* h_array;
      h_array = (double*)malloc(arraySize * sizeof(double));

      HIP_CHECK(hipMalloc((void**)&d_array, arraySize * sizeof(double)));
      HIP_CHECK(callKernel(blocks, threadsPerBlock, d_array, arraySize));
      HIP_CHECK(hipMemcpy(h_array, d_array, arraySize * sizeof(double), hipMemcpyDeviceToHost));
      HIP_CHECK(hipFree(d_array));

      free(h_array);
      return 0;
  }

These files are then compiled and linked using

.. code-block:: shell

  hipcc -c device.hip
  gcc host.c device.o $(hipconfig --cpp_config) -L/opt/rocm/lib -lamdhip64

assuming the default installation of ROCm in ``/opt/rocm``.

Miscellaneous
=============

> 

Reviewer 4: I think a question need to add "Can I develop applications with HIP APIs on Windows the same on Linux?"

Reviewer 2: Is that really a frequently asked question? What would the answer to that be?

*******************************************************************************
Frequently asked questions
*******************************************************************************

HIP Support
===========

> What APIs and features does HIP support?

Reviewer 2: This question is worded badly and almost a tautology - HIP supports the HIP API.

```suggestion
What CUDA features does HIP support?
```

----------------------------------------

HIP provides the following:

* Devices (``hipSetDevice()``, ``hipGetDeviceProperties()``, etc.)
* Memory management (``hipMalloc()``, ``hipMemcpy()``, ``hipFree()``, etc.)
* Streams (``hipStreamCreate()``, ``hipStreamSynchronize()``, ``hipStreamWaitEvent()``, etc.)
* Events (``hipEventRecord()``, ``hipEventElapsedTime()``, etc.)
* Kernel launching (CUDA triple-chevron (``<<< >>>``) syntax is the preferred way of launching kernels. ``hipLaunchKernel`` and ``hipLaunchKernelGGL`` are a standard C/C++ macro that can serve as an alternative way to launch kernels).
* HIP Module API to control when and how code is loaded.
* Kernel coordinate functions (``threadIdx``, ``blockIdx``, ``blockDim``, ``gridDim``)
* Cross-lane instructions including ``shfl``, ``ballot``, ``any``, ``all``
* Most device-side math built-ins

> * Error reporting (``hipGetLastError()``, ``hipGetErrorString()``)

Reviewer 2: This can be completely removed to reduce the maintenance burden on this - the questions should be answered with links to the documentation if possible. The link below should be more or less sufficient. It could probably also be merged with the next question (since they are exactly the opposite of each other), with the link to the hipify documentation. I think hipify and this repos doxygen reference are the best sources we have on this right now

The `HIP API documentation <doxygen/html/index.html>`_ describes each API and its limitations, if any, compared with the equivalent CUDA API.

What is not supported?
----------------------

Runtime/Driver API features
```````````````````````````

At a high-level, the following features are not supported:

* Textures (partial support available)
* Dynamic parallelism (CUDA 5.0)
* Graphics interoperability with OpenGL or Direct3D
* CUDA IPC Functions (Under Development)
* CUDA array, ``mipmappedArray`` and pitched memory

> * Queue priority controls

Reviewer 2: While I understand, that a list of this is nice as a quick look-up, this tends to go out of date very quickly.

E.g. there is opengl interop now, and mipmapped arrays and pitched memory are also available afaik

I didn't look up the others

> See the `API Support Table <https://github.com/ROCm/HIPIFY/blob/amd-staging/docs/tables/CUDA_Runtime_API_functions_supported_by_HIP.md>`_ for more detailed information.

Reviewer 2: Please link to the corresponding rocm.docs.amd.com page isntead of the github source file

Kernel language features
````````````````````````

* C++-style device-side dynamic memory allocations (free, new, delete) (CUDA 4.0)
* Try/catch (CUDA 4.0)
* ``__prof_trigger``

> * PTX assembly (CUDA 4.0). HIP-Clang supports inline GCN assembly.

Reviewer 2: Again: don't list the information that is accessible on the linked page

> * Several kernel features are under development. See the :doc:`/reference/cpp_language_extensions` for more information.

Reviewer 2: This should highlight the relation to CUDA
```suggestion
Not all CUDA kernel features are supported. See the :doc:`/reference/cpp_language_extensions` for more information.
```

> What libraries does HIP support?

Reviewer 2: Again, a tautoligical question. The important part here is again the relation to CUDA
```suggestion
What CUDA libraries does HIP support?
```
The other option would be for this to highlight what libraries are *shipped* with HIP
```suggestion
What libraries does HIP provide?
```

--------------------------------

HIP includes growing support for the four key math libraries using hipBLAS, hipFFT, hipRAND and hipSPARSE, as well as MIOpen for machine intelligence applications.
These offer pointer-based memory interfaces (as opposed to opaque buffers) and can be easily interfaced with other HIP applications.
The hip interfaces support both ROCm and CUDA paths, with familiar library interfaces.

* `hipBLAS <https://github.com/ROCm/hipBLAS>`_, which utilizes `rocBlas <https://github.com/ROCm/rocBLAS>`_.
* `hipCUB <https://github.com/ROCm/hipcub>`_, which utilizes `rocPRIM <https://github.com/ROCm/rocprim>`_.
* `hipFFT <https://github.com/ROCm/hipfft>`_
* `hipsSPARSE <https://github.com/ROCm/hipsparse>`_
* `hipRAND <https://github.com/ROCm/hipRAND>`_
* `MIOpen <https://github.com/ROCm/MIOpen>`_
* `rocThrust <https://github.com/ROCm/rocthrust>`_, which utilizes `rocPRIM <https://github.com/ROCm/rocprim>`_.

> Additionally, some of the cuBLAS routines are automatically converted to hipblas equivalents by the HIPIFY tools. These APIs use cuBLAS or hcBLAS depending on the platform and replace the need to use conditional compilation.

Reviewer 2: This list is outdated and misses a few libraries. Again, just remove and link to the appropriate documentation.
The closeset we have to this documentation is https://rocm.docs.amd.com/en/latest/reference/api-libraries.html and I'm not even sure if that's complete
